# Principle of Giving

For those that play sports this concept is probably not new unless you were someone who participated in individual sports. As a teenager and young adult I was a comptitive swimmer. In the world of Competitive swimming everyone is your competition, at least this is how I viewed the world. The only way to win is to have someone slower then you. This type of competition discouraged the idea of "teamwork" or sharing of knowledge as even your teammates were considered your competition.
I first learned of the principle of giving when I started my degree in Electrical Engineering. I remember early on in my degree being focused on my own work to the point where if I finished work or understood concepts I would often leave my peers and continue with my busy schedule. As I progressed in my degree, I began to struggle with many different concepts. This forced me to rely on my peers to help me. Our school had a place to work called the Cadm lab. A location where engineers could study and work on assignments with peers. I began to realize the impact that my peers had on myself when they practiced a principle of giving without expecting to recieve. Giving without expectations. I look back now and truely believe I would not have made it through my degree without great friends and helpful peers.

A few years back my father in law shared with me a talk given at BYI back in 2009 (Why Giving Matters, Arhtur C. Brooks, https://speeches.byu.edu/talks/arthur-c-brooks/giving-matters-2/). This article had a profound effect on me in realizing the objective benefits of giving and adopting this principle of giving into your life. Fast forward years now as a manager and while watching peers and teams, the impact of people and teams that adopt a principle and attitude of genuinely giving and helping others are those who find the most joy and success in their work.

Recently I had a meeting with an EVP in our organziation, he used the phrase, the cream always rises to the top. Often in a business environment, its easy to get caught up in the idea that make your peers look bad and you will climb the ladder quicker, talk people down and this will help you get the next promotion, or even hold everything close to your chest and you will maintain control and become indispencible to the company. Getting caught up in these patterns might help you make quick moves or even give you job security. But at the end of the day long term success will always be achieved by doing the right thing.

Don't expect that doing the right thing or giving without expectation wont be met with pain or even dissapointment. But at the end of the day your career will be rought with success and joy if you choose, giving and sharing.
